.\" SCCS ID: xfsound.man 18/03/1998
.TH XFCE 1F "Olivier Fourdan"
.SH NAME
XFCE \- XFce Sound
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B xfsound
.PP
[-display host:dpy] [-bw borderwidth]
[-visual visualname] [-depth depth] 
[-debug level] [-sync] [-private] 
[-shared] [-stdmap] [-name name] 
.PP
The following informations are taken from the xforms man page,
and may vary from the xforms version.
.PP
.TP 6
.BI \-display " host:dpy"
specifies the server to connect to.
.TP
.BI \-bw " borderwidth"
specifies the border width to use for built-in objects. 
Use negative values for XFCE, to avoid the black border line arround objects
.TP
.BI \-visual " visualName"
requests a visual by name such as TrueColor etc. By default the
.B Forms Library
always selects the visual that has the most depth.
.TP
.BI \-depth " depth"
requests a specific depth.
.TP
.BI \-debug " level"
generates some info about the state of the
.B XForms. 
where 
.I level
is an integer between 1-5 and controls the amount of
information to output. Depending on the options used
when the
.B Forms Library
was built, a level more than 3 might not be available.
.TP
.B \-sync
runs the application in synchronous mode with debug level set to 4. 
.TP
.B \-private
requests a private colormap for the application.
.TP
.B \-shared
requests a shared colormap even if the application needs more
colors than available. For those colors that can't be allocated
in the shared colormap, substitutions are made so the closest
matching color is used.
.TP
.B \-stdcmap
requests a standard colormap.
.TP
.B \-name " newname"
specifies the application name under which resources are to be
obtained, rather than the default executable file name. 
.PP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
xfsound is both a user interface and a module that actually plays sound
defined through the GUI.
If xfsound is started from the command prompt, a window will come out
and display a user interface, defining a way to play a sound whenever an 
event from XFwm is detected.
.PP
If xfsound is started from XFwm's config or from XFce using the keyword "Module"
then xfsound will be started as a background module that keeps on listenning
to XFwm events and play a sound accordingly.
.PP
xfsound does not actually plays sounds, it uses a user defined command that is
supposed to play the sound. XFce provides the shell script xfplay to do that.
.PP
xfplay is a script that reads a .wav file and send it to /dev/dsp using sox
.PP
If you use XFce through a local network, you'd rather use rplay to play sound across
the network.
.PP
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
xforms, rplay
.PP
rplay is available from :
.TP
.I ftp://ftp.sdsu.edu/pub/rplay/
.TP
.I ftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/audio/rplay/
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Olivier Fourdan (fourdan@csi.com)
.PP
.B  This software is absolutely free of charge. Can be distributed 
.B freely, but mention original name and author if modified.
.PP  
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR (O. FOURDAN) BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN 
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
.P
Copyright
.Cr
1997-1998 Olivier Fourdan (fourdan@csi.com)
